docs: Satellites as GHA runners (#4082)
earthly/earthly: docs/cloud/satellites/gha-runners.md

# Satellites as GHA runners (**experimental**)

> Earthly Satellites embed now a GitHub self-hosted runner, so they can directly pull jobs from GHA without the need of an intermediate runner.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Earthly Satellites are bundled with GitHub self-hosted runner, so they can directly pull jobs from GHA without the need of an intermediate runner.
```

> This self-hosted runner comes with the Earthly CLI preinstalled, and it's configured to use the Satellite BuildKit instance, so GHA jobs will share the same Satellite cache than the traditional Satellite builds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This self-hosted runner comes with the Earthly CLI preinstalled and configured to use the Satellite BuildKit instance, so GHA jobs will share the same Satellite cache than the traditional Satellite builds.
```

> Also, notice that the self-hosted runner can run any arbitrary GHA job, not necessarily an Earthly command, and given that it runs within the Satellite, it benefits from its persistent local storage (see ["Persistent Folders" section below](#persistent-folders)) across builds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The self-hosted runner can run _any_ GHA job, not necessarily an Earthly command. Since it runs on the Satellite, it benefits from its persistent local storage (see ["Persistent Folders" section below](#persistent-folders)) across builds.
```

## Early access
This feature is in closed-beta at the moment. You can request early access through support@earthly.dev

## Configuration

> Once your organization is allowed to use this feature, next step is to set the integration. You have two possible options here:

Reviewer: this feels a bit wordier than needed. maybe one can just say:

> Once approved for the closed-beta, you can enable satellite-based GHA workers for specific GitHub Repositories or for all repositories in your organization.

and then remove the unordered list.

- A GitHub repository integration, that allows processing the builds of that repository in the Satellites of the integrated Earthly organization.
- A GitHub organization-wide integration, that allows processing the builds of any repository of that GitHub organization in the Satellites of the integrated Earthly organization.

> In both cases the configuration is done through the `earthly` CLI, and you will need to provide us with a GitHub personal access token to talk to the GitHub API on your behalf and perform the integration. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In either case the configuration is done through the `earthly` CLI, and you will need to provide us with a GitHub personal access token to talk to the GitHub API on your behalf and perform the integration. 
```

### Integration details

The integration process registers a webhook in your GitHub repository/organization to receive events associated to GHA jobs and checks that the token has permissions to create self-hosted runners.
Then it stores the encrypted token on our end (we will use it every time a new job event is processed).

### GitHub token

> Follow the [official docs](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/keeping-your-account-and-data-secure/managing-your-personal-access-tokens) for detailed information on how to create a GitHub PAT.

Reviewer: I've never seen the `PAT` acronym before, but maybe I live under a rock.

#### Expiration time

> As mentioned, the token provided will be used during the configuration process as well as every time a job event is received on our end, so make sure you set its expiration time accordingly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Important: The token is used during the configuration process and _each time_ a job event is received -- be sure to set the expiration time accordingly.
```

#### Permissions
##### Organization-wide integration

> For organization-wide integrations, the user must be an admin of that organization and the token must have the following scopes/permissions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For organization-wide integrations, the user must be an admin of the organization and the token must have the following scopes/permissions:
```

Personal access tokens (classic) scopes:
- `admin:org_hook`
- `admin:org`

Fine grained token permissions: 
- `organization_hooks:write`
- `organization_self_hosted_runners:write`

##### Repository integration

> For repository integrations, the user must be an admin of that repository and the token must have the following scopes/permissions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For repository integrations, the user must be an admin of the repository and the token must have the following scopes/permissions:
```

From the GitHub side, integration can be done at two levels: organization-wide and per repository.
The provided token must have enough permissions to register webhooks and to create GitHub self hosted runners in those two scenarios.

OPTIONS:
--org value       The name of the Earthly organization to set an integration with. Defaults to selected organization
--gh-org value    The name of the GitHub organization to set an integration with
--gh-repo value   The name of the GitHub repository to set an integration with
--gh-token value  The GitHub token used for the integration. Personal Access Token (classic) or fine grained tokens supported.
--help, -h        show help
```

## Satellite configuration
This feature is currently disabled by default for satellites. It must be enabled in a per-satellite basis as follows:

### Managed (Earthly Cloud) Satellites
Launch the satellite with the `enable-gha-runner` [feature-flag](https://docs.earthly.dev/earthly-cloud/satellites/managing#changing-feature-flags) enabled.
```
earthly satellite --feature-flag enable-gha-runner <satellite-name>
``` 

### Self-hosted satellites

> To enable the GH runner for a self-hosted satellite, just set this environment entry when launching it, as well as giving the satellite container access to docker daemon in order to create containers for the GHA jobs:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable the GH runner for a self-hosted satellite, just set this environment entry when launching it, as well as giving the satellite container access to the docker daemon in order to create containers for the GHA jobs:
```

```
-v /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock \
-e RUNNER_GHA_ENABLED=true
```

> also notice that satellite container must have access to docker daemon in order to run the GHA jobs in containers:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
also note that the satellite container must have access to docker daemon in order to run the GHA jobs in containers:
```

### Satellite name
```
earthly-satellite#<satellite-name>
```
This label marks the job to run on the referenced satellite, belonging to the [integrated](#cli) organization. 

Only one label starting with `earthly-satellite#` is allowed per job.
### Persistent folders
```
earthly-cache-folder#<absolute-path>
```
These labels allow defining folders whose contents will be shared across multiple builds.
This is specially useful for defining persistent caches for tools external to Earthly. 

Notice that multiple labels starting with `earthly-cache-folder#` can be set for a given job, one per persistent folder.

### Examples
#### Running an earthly job
The following example runs the +build target in the Satellite. Given that the GH runner is configured to use the Satellite BuildKit instance, the persistent satellite cache is implicitly used here.
```yml
earthly-job:
  runs-on: [earthly-satellite#my-gha-satellite]
  env:
    FORCE_COLOR: 1
  steps:
    - uses: actions/checkout@v2
    - name: Earthly build
      run: earthly -ci +build
```
#### Caching non-Earthly jobs

> The following example runs maven externally to Earthly, but benefiting from the satellite storage to mount a persistent local cache for the maven artifacts:  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example runs maven externally to Earthly, but benefits from the satellite storage to mount a persistent local cache for the maven artifacts:  
```
